Config file breakdown (#565)
netbirdio/docs: src/pages/selfhosted/configuration-files.mdx

| `management.json` | Core management server configuration | `getting-started.sh` / `configure.sh` |
| `relay.env` | Relay server environment variables (includes STUN configuration) | `getting-started.sh` |
| `dashboard.env` | Dashboard UI configuration | `getting-started.sh` |
| `Caddyfile` | Reverse proxy configuration (when using built-in Caddy) | `getting-started.sh` |

### File Locations

After running the installation script, configuration files are located in the directory where you ran the script (typically `~/netbird/` or the current working directory):

```
./
├── docker-compose.yml
├── management.json
├── relay.env
├── dashboard.env
└── Caddyfile          # Only when using built-in Caddy
```

---

## docker-compose.yml

The Docker Compose file defines all NetBird services, their dependencies, networking, and volumes.

### Services Overview

| Service | Image | Default Port | Description |
|---------|-------|--------------|-------------|
| `dashboard` | `netbirdio/dashboard` | 80, 443 | Web UI for managing NetBird |
| `management` | `netbirdio/management` | 80 | Core API, peer coordination, and embedded IdP |

> | `signal` | `netbirdio/signal` | 80, 10000 | WebRTC signaling for peer connections |

Author: amended

| 10000 | gRPC | Legacy backward compatibility server | NetBird clients older than v0.10.0 |

<Note>
**About port 10000 (Legacy gRPC):** Starting with NetBird v0.10.0, the signal service moved to standard HTTP ports (443/80) with HTTP/2 support, allowing connections through reverse proxies. Port 10000 is maintained as a **backward compatibility server** for older clients that still use the original gRPC protocol.

**When can you close port 10000?** If all your NetBird clients are running v0.10.0 or later (released July 2022), you can safely remove the port 10000 mapping from your `docker-compose.yml`. Modern clients connect via the reverse proxy on ports 443/80 using HTTP/2. However, if you have any older clients or are unsure, keep port 10000 open to ensure connectivity.
</Note>

<Note>
When using the built-in Caddy reverse proxy, port 10000 is not exposed externally by default since Caddy routes modern signal traffic internally. If you need to support legacy clients with the built-in Caddy deployment, you would need to add the port mapping manually.
</Note>

### Relay Service

> The relay service provides NAT traversal when direct peer-to-peer connections are not possible. It also includes an embedded STUN server for NAT detection and traversal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relay service is a public service that forwards packets when direct peer-to-peer communication is not possible. It also includes an embedded STUN server for NAT detection and traversal.
```

            "Username": "netbird",
            "Password": "your-turn-password"
        }
    ],
    "CredentialsTTL": "12h",
    "Secret": "secret",
    "TimeBasedCredentials": false
}
```

<Properties>
  <Property name="Turns" type="array">
    Array of TURN server configurations.
  </Property>
  <Property name="Turns[].Proto" type="string">
    Protocol: `udp`, `tcp`, or `tls`. Default: `udp`
  </Property>
  <Property name="Turns[].URI" type="string">
    TURN server URI. Format: `turn:hostname:port` or `turns:hostname:port` for TLS.
  </Property>
  <Property name="Turns[].Username" type="string">
    TURN authentication username.
  </Property>
  <Property name="Turns[].Password" type="string">
    TURN authentication password.
  </Property>
  <Property name="CredentialsTTL" type="string">
    Time-to-live for TURN credentials. Format: Go duration (e.g., `12h`, `30m`). Default: `12h`
  </Property>
  <Property name="Secret" type="string">
    Shared secret for time-based credentials (when enabled).
  </Property>
  <Property name="TimeBasedCredentials" type="boolean">
    Enable time-based TURN credentials. Default: `false`
  </Property>

> </Properties>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- **Credential-based authentication** - The shared secret ensures only authorized peers can use your relay

```json
"Relay": {
    "Addresses": ["rels://netbird.example.com:443"],
    "CredentialsTTL": "24h",
    "Secret": "your-relay-secret"
}
```

<Note>
The relay address uses the same port as HTTPS (443) when using TLS (`rels://`), or port 80 when not using TLS (`rel://`). The reverse proxy routes `/relay*` paths to the relay service internally.
</Note>

<Properties>
  <Property name="Addresses" type="array">
    Array of relay server addresses. Format: `rels://hostname:port` for TLS or `rel://hostname:port` for unencrypted. Default uses the public HTTPS port (443).
  </Property>
  <Property name="CredentialsTTL" type="string">
    Time-to-live for relay credentials. Default: `24h`
  </Property>
  <Property name="Secret" type="string">
    Shared authentication secret. Must match relay server's `NB_AUTH_SECRET`.
  </Property>
</Properties>

<Warning>
The relay secret must be identical in both `management.json` and the relay service environment. A mismatch will cause relay connections to fail.
</Warning>

> ### Signal Section

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention 10000 port anymore, here and in other places of this guide. 
Also no need for all that legacy signal mentions.

```bash
# Endpoints
NETBIRD_MGMT_API_ENDPOINT=https://netbird.example.com
NETBIRD_MGMT_GRPC_API_ENDPOINT=https://netbird.example.com

# OIDC - using embedded IdP
AUTH_AUDIENCE=netbird-dashboard
AUTH_CLIENT_ID=netbird-dashboard
AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=
AUTH_AUTHORITY=https://netbird.example.com/oauth2
USE_AUTH0=false
AUTH_SUPPORTED_SCOPES=openid profile email groups
AUTH_REDIRECT_URI=/nb-auth
AUTH_SILENT_REDIRECT_URI=/nb-silent-auth

# SSL - disabled when behind reverse proxy (Caddy handles TLS)
NGINX_SSL_PORT=443
LETSENCRYPT_DOMAIN=none
```

<Note>
When using the built-in Caddy or an external reverse proxy, set `LETSENCRYPT_DOMAIN=none` because the reverse proxy handles TLS termination. Only set a domain here if running the dashboard standalone without a reverse proxy.
</Note>

### Endpoint Configuration

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `NETBIRD_MGMT_API_ENDPOINT` | The URL where the dashboard makes REST API calls to the management server (e.g., `https://netbird.example.com`). Must be accessible from users' browsers since API calls are made client-side. |

> | `NETBIRD_MGMT_GRPC_API_ENDPOINT` | The URL for gRPC communication with the management server. Usually the same as the REST endpoint. Used for real-time updates and streaming data to the dashboard. |

Reviewer: Used for real-time updates and streaming data to the dashboard - That should be different. It is used for client configuration links and in-browser SSH and RDP
